Light Rain
by Pat Petrus


________________




The deserts of the American Southwest were due for rain. 


The men who controlled the weather loved this day, for all the back-slapping and laughing and bonuses it got them. Few of them grasped the significance of their place in culture. They were engineers living hundreds of miles away, in quiet suburbs valued in the low half-millions. They had families needing feeding, paychecks needing getting, corporate ladders needing climbing. Their lives boiled down to computers, not culture. 


But at the behest of the government, each year in the early morning hours of the spring solstice they arrived at their modest office in the Center for Weather Control in Seattle and turned the eyes of their laser arrays towards the skies of Arizona, New Mexico, Nevada, Texas, and Oklahoma. Numbers were crunched, proofs were proofed and re-preoofed. Coffee was brewed. A few pictures were snapped. The office building tuned in its collective attention towards a singular point, like an orchestra waiting for a downbeat. 


Outside the weather office, dew dripped off the ten-block array of lasers. Each laser consisted of a two-story tall piece of metal shaped like a thin cross and mounted on a rotating gimbal. A latticework of hanging wires connected one laser to another, into cells of one hundred lasers each. There were ten cells at this particular office.


On cue from the office, they rose to life and turned as one towards the distant southern horizon. A hum filled the air, rising like the swell of an orchestra.


In a small town in rural Arizona, dust swirled around a town square. 


Some two hundred people gathered in celebration, bringing gifts of food for a town potluck. They were all gathered around the square’s central monument, a two-story tall piece of polished stone shaped like a thin cross set in a reflecting pool. On any normal day, the pool would be full of water. But the town’s mayor had ceremonially drained it the night before.


As the hour drew near, volunteers packed away the potluck and distributed ponchos to the elderly folks who didn’t want to get wet. Most politely turned the ponchos away.


The minutes ticked down, and the square grew quiet, until only the wind and dust made any sound. The town tuned in its collective attention to watch the horizon. 


A deep hum filled the air, rising like the swell of an orchestra.


First came the clouds, dark and wild as a dream. And then an endless cascade of rain fell, sweeping from one side of the square to another.


Light rain. The words passed among the crowd between cries of elation. Light rain. Cleansing the air of dust, turning the paved streets into rivers. The ponchos pointless to stop the kiss of nature. Children dancing in puddles, stomping and splashing and shrieking with joy.


Light rain. The empty reflecting pool filled up and spilled over. Humanity for a brief moment placed its mark upon the land.